this video we're going to take a look at
using Pro cutter to create an object
that we're going to fragment the reason
that we use pro cutter is that it's
going to slice an object up the sphere
and it's going to create fully closed
elements out of them this is really good
if you want to do things like crumbling
structures concrete posts anything
that's got realistic solid geometry
let's go ahead and take a look we've got
a bunch of splines out here now each one
of these splines is actually comes with
the default interpolation of six we're
going to see why that's a little high
pro cutter is going to add a lot of
extra calculation when it uses that I'm
going to go ahead and select all those
splines and extrude them make it nice
and far you can see that we get lots of
extra edges in here and what that's
going to do is that's going to cause pro
cutter to cut really slowly so what
we're going to do is use a little
maxscript it's selected dot steps equals
one and that's going to go ahead and
reduce that interpolation and what we're
going to do is we're going to take all
these extruded splines that we've got
duplicate them and then we're going to
just angle them around and we're going
to look at our projection angle this is
the kind of the pattern that's going to
be cut through that sphere from that
side while the sphere is going to be cut
by these other ones go ahead and move
him here check them again from the side
okay it looks pretty good let's take
these here drag them over and you
remember that the way pro cutter works
is you select your first cutter object
you say you want to create a pro cutter
with that then you pick your stock
object the thing you want to cut we're
going to cut that sphere 01 pick him you
can see that it goes ahead and it
removes part of that mesh what we need
to do is set the keep the stock inside
the cutter and that'll give us both the
outside and inside portions let's just
go ahead and take a quick look at what
we have right now we've got just one
slice through there will put an edit
poly on it and take a look at the
elements so you can see from the back
side on the inside this element is fully
closed
just move them out here and you can see
that and he's left a fully fully closed
remaining mesh as well this gives a
really nice f fragmenting effect that's
why we're going to take a look at this
method go ahead and unhide and then what
we're going to do is pick the rest of
these cutter objects we're just going to
go ahead and multi select these lines
and say pick and we're going to go and
put you on pause well like I actually
calculates this okay so this is finished
and now you can see that we have an
object here that is very cut up we get
all different kinds of cuts in there we
look from the kind of the top or that
left side we can see where that pattern
was anyway what we want to do now is we
want to go ahead and actually cut this
up or fragment this up we're going to go
ahead and jump into TP create a rule
we're going to use a black box we saved
before it's under the test two it's
called a fragment with light and
fragment with light just gives us a good
starting point and creates these two
groups for us we can go ahead and cut
that paste them up here now there's some
things that we need to update we need to
go into the bourne the object particle
and pick our source object this line of
seven as he was he's going to be the
source particle group and he's going to
be instant shape then we'll go ahead and
hide him now what we also want to do is
come into the fragment rule and adjust
some things in fragment first of all we
don't want to use lights and then what
we want to do is we want to set smooth
and distance we're going to set this to
be a hundred and 80 and 100 and what
this will do is this will say okay
you're smoothing angle can be you know
180 degrees it can cover everything and
your radius can be a hundred percent and
what this will do is this will kind of
force each element to end up being his
own fragment can't really see it right
now but there's some other issues that
we've got because this is a safe black
box we'll go ahead and take a look we
come down into the fragment shape and
because each one of these is a closed
element we don't really want any
thickness because that's actually going
to create a shelled object it's going to
it's like adding a shell modifier to
something that's already solid
it's good just going to make it a kind
of a hollow object with a little
thickness so what we want to do is we
want to say exclude closed fragments you
can see that update changes now those
actual those elements because they're
already closed they're just going to
stay one solid piece of mesh just as
they were before we fragmented them but
it does create an individual particle
per element something else we're going
to remove this outside edge and back
side I material ID assignment because we
don't want to override the actual
material IDs take a look at pro cutter
documentation and set your cutters to
have a specific material ID and take a
look at pro cutter as far as how to
apply that material ID to the inside of
those cuts and last but not least we're
going to change our remaining shape from
solid to hollow and that way it's not
going to create a bunch of extra funky
looking stuff ok and then what we're
going to do is we're actually going to
animate our threshold value we're just
going to come out here we'll start at
frame 20 and we'll set a key there for a
threshold value of one let's go up to
100 and say zero see that automatically
fragments there and so what happens is
this object begins and he breaks apart
what you see there is the completed
elements breaking away let's take a look
at what happens if we did have because
we want to see instead of exclude close
fragments let's turn that on and you can
see it gets this extra edge in their
kind of see that thickness it's creating
a hollowed-out element which may or may
not be desired in our case we want to
exclude closed frags so that it only
uses the elements as we had cut them
make this a little more interesting
really easily we just go ahead and throw
some spin on them and drop that their
spin of one ninety percent variation and
so we'll see as these pieces come flying
out they're going to have quite a bit of
spin to them it's probably a little fast
so this method is really good for things
like I think we said buildings or big
concrete pillars or any big solid heavy
object that you need to artistically cut
to control the fragmenting okay we'll go
ahead and save this as fragment 5 end
and we're going to go ahead and save
this as frag elements and we're going to
save that as black box here in the test
two category and exist to create okay